Written by Flower Bomb

One would think that after having years of experience with friends dying a sort of emotional de-sensitivity would develop. But it doesn’t. At least not for me. I hold my friends very close to my heart and make a point of checking in on them frequently. It is easy to do while being acutely aware of the emotional struggles each of my friends struggle with, and while also being willfully unemployed. But year after year I am reminded of the hard fact that no matter how close you hold your friends, someone can always slip through the cracks. Death always finds a way.

I met “T” (author name “Vega”) at the Civ Fucks Zine Fest in LA November 11th 2023. He came up to our table, shy and slightly awkward, and began slowly looking over all of our zines. He decided to take one of each and left. Later on he came back and said “How do you feel about mutual aid?”. We began an hour long conversation, exchanging different ideas in relation to his shared personal story. T was a queer (who rejected gender and didn’t care what pronouns people used for him), vegetarian in the process of going vegan, nihilist who rejected conventional concepts and victimist discourse so often associated with disability, even while struggling with limited mobility himself.

Prior to our meeting T had suffered a serious work-related injury that left him with permanent damage. In addition he struggled with schizophrenia and depression. Despite all of this he absolutely rejected being seen as “broken” or a victim. And he wanted to help others feel the same. I was emotionally moved by his stories of survival and his iron will to survive and help others.

“T, if you write about these things that we’ve talked about here, I will publish them. I will turn them into zines, and publish them on the website and circulate them for others to read!”

T replied:

“Wait… you would really do that? I’ve always thought about writing but…Idk. Would you really publish it like these here?”

“Yes! Absolutely!” I said.

The very next morning I wake up and check my email and sure enough, T has written a text. It’s short, but powerful and reflective of the same conversation we had the day prior.

“T this is fucking awesome! I will get this formatted in a few days and published! Is “T” what you want your author name to be?”

He says:

““Vega”. That’s the name I want as my author name. “Vega”.

I asked him what cover image he’d like for the zine and he asked me to choose. I did a quick google search and found this image of someone in a wheelchair giving the finger. I sent it to him and he responded “Oh shit. That’s me!” We both couldn’t stop laughing because the image was too perfect. And so from that day forward that became his symbol of his idea of surviving against society. I Am Not Broken: Anarcho-Nihilist Disability & Survival Against Industrial Society was released as T’s first publicized text December 19 2023.

Over time T and I talked almost everyday. T shared some poems that I also turned into a zine and published as well. He thanked me profusely as I thanked him as well for working up the courage to share his personal stories. Nothing made me feel happier than to hear his voice when he saw his writing on the website. He was ready to write more. After a month emails began coming through from people who enjoyed his writing. I quickly re-directed them to T who would later thank me again. We cried together over the phone: him crying over feeling like someone actually listened to him, and me over the tragedy that he had went so long without being heard at all.

Life was not at all easy for T. He eventually lost his apartment and was homeless. Our daily talks continued as I tried to keep his spirits up, putting him into direct contact with people who were inspired by him through his writing. But the weight of loneliness and a recent divorce grew heavier by the day. I had come to find out he was using a lot of different drugs and drinking. Despite numerous conversations about him getting sober he continued using. Some of our phone conversations were almost totally incoherent. He began losing track of his belongings and sinking deeper into depression. But he kept fighting. He expressed an iron will to survive at all costs for his daughter and for the sake of helping and inspiring others. Some days he’d be feeling great and thanking me for all my support. Other days he’d be flirting with suicidal temptations which had me on high alert constantly. But then he’d be back up again. One day I decided to try to convince him to temporarily crash with a friend in Portland to sober up. He said that was a good idea. I put my friend from Portland and him in touch and told him to let me know when he was ready to go there and I’d get him there. He thanked me again.

Things were pretty much up and down from there. Some days worse than others.

On June 3rd I texted him wanting to see how he was feeling, and to let him know I would be in his city in a few days to hang out with him and most importantly, give him a huge hug. That same night I got news that despite being familiar, never fails to knock the wind out of me. T aka “Vega” was gone.

I don’t know if it was a suicide-induced or accidental. All I know is that it was an overdose.

I was, and am still currently devastated. I know he won’t answer. But I text him anyways. I know he won’t pick up, but I call anyways. I still have many of his voice texts. Some obviously left while he was fucked up on some shit, and others of him simply expressing his deep appreciation for our friendship.

This is undoubtedly my least favorite type of writing. But I want the world to know just who Vega is. Because he wasn’t active in “the scene” or in the streets, and because he was still a brand new writer, many people have no idea what a wonderful person he was. Despite having very little friends he was incredibly selfless, always willing to help others. He believed so deeply in mutual-aid, even if only a few ever helped him. He was brilliant. His understanding of things was so unique and he related to people in amazing ways.

His determination to survive for his daughter and for the few friends he had leads me to believe this was an accidental overdose. The drug usage, loneliness he struggled with, as well as the depression and limited mobility could have also pushed him over the edge. I will never know for sure. But what I do know for sure is there is yet another hole in my heart, having lost another incredible friend. “Not everyone who uses drugs dies from an overdose lol” – said another friend, who also died from an overdose. There is a silent killer among us all – and it’s not the cops.

Rest in peace my dear friend T… I love you…

“My job couldn’t kill me, it could only tear me down to place me on a path of healing, a path to helping others through their struggles as I was able to work through mine. The pain is not an easy companion but it’s a constant reminder to look after myself and to look after others. This world is a dark, isolating place but I serve as a reminder that we can make it through our darkest times, that a flickering flame may well be the spark that lights industry aflame. We are not weak, only prisoner of the illusion of weakness. If we refuse to crumble under the immense pressures of this world we may cast light into the shadows, bearing witness to transformation and casting aside despair.”

-Vega, “Anarcho-Nihilist Disability&Survival Against Industrial Society”

The annual IWW WISE-RA Conference for 2024 took place last weekend across 3 days (24th – 26th May) in the city of Bristol UK.

The Conference was attended by around 50 delegates and observers from branches all over the world and was opened with reports from Cyprus (CY-ROC), Germany and Austria (GLAM-ROC), Poland, and Australasia (AUS-ROC). Further reports were given by each IWW branch in attendance, providing an overall perspective of the health of the union and ongoing campaigns in workplaces and our communities.

Two motions were tabled for the conference, the subjects of which proposed the formation of ‘Associations’ as a formal structure withing the union (within the context of groups such as the Pan-African Worker’s Association forming and taking a leading focus within the IWW) and clearing up what forms of occupation are incompatible with IWW membership. Both motions were passed by conference, the first almost unanimously, the second motion received a majority of votes in support but was amended via a breakout group to allow for some changes to reach a stronger consensus.

The date of the conference was significant as it was the anniversary of the bombing of IWW member Judi Bari, and we heard a presentation by a fellow worker from North America about her life as an inspiring activist, musician, feminist, revolutionary labour and environmental organiser. Bari’s work, bringing environmental action into the workplace was echoed in a presentation given by the group Earth Strike UK. Earth Strike outlined a detailed strategy for building towards a global general strike to fight climate change and overcome the obstacles to the goal of ecological harmony in the IWW preamble.

Several talks at conference fed into a strong theme of developing feminist struggle within the IWW and wider labour movement. The Co-President of Egitem-Sen union in Kurdistan spoke about the women’s liberation struggle in Kurdistan, giving examples and perspectives from the autonomous region of North-East Syria and the power of revolutionary women to shape a new society. One of the founders of the İMECE domestic workers union in Türkiye attended in person and delivered a presentation about the union’s work to highlight and resolve the issues (particularly safety risks) faced by women working in private homes. Comrades from the #MeTU movement shared their experience of fighting back against sexual assault and gender discrimination within the labour movement using direct action and placing a spotlight on those within our movements who abuse their power. All of these talks were inspiring and gave the attendees a strong basis for the work that the union faces going forward to become a more radical feminist labour movement, both in our organising in our workplaces and our structures.

Another broad theme across the talks at conference was the focus on migrant worker organising. The (newly elected) secretary and a founding member of the Pan-African Workers Association (PAWA) talked about migrant workers from Africa in the UK-state care system and their exploitation through the Certificate of Sponsorship scheme and by opportunistic employers, and opportunities for collaboration between PAWA and other branches of the IWW by organising as members of the same working class. This was further underlined by a talk by a fellow worker about their academic research into the working conditions of migrant workers in Glasgow. He also emphasised the importance of going to migrant workers, listening to their needs, and finding opportunities for class solidarity. A fellow worker in Médecins Sans Frontières (Doctors Without Borders) provided an example of class-conscious and internationalist organising in their campaign to decolonise MSF. They advocated for decolonising MSF through grassroots unionising to improve conditions, such as getting the organisation to provide local workers the same access to vaccines as international workers who currently receive preferential treatment.

The conference was closed with a speech from incarcerated fellow worker Toby Shone who outlined the challenged of building the capacity of the Incarcerated Workers Organising Committee (IWOC) into a fighting organ that can improve the conditions and raise the voices of prisoners. We recommend that fellow workers show their solidarity to Toby by writing to him at:
Toby Shone A7645EP
HMP Garth
Ulnes Walton
Leyland
Preston
PR26 8NE

Overall the conference brought fellow workers together, passing motions and offering a space for a range of political education. Alongside the talks on the agenda there was a workshop on writing for the IWW Wildcat Newsletter as well as breakout discussions for fellows workers to talk about our affiliation to the ICL-CIT, planning a programme for building area organising committees, LGBTIQIA+ issues in the IWW, reviving the IWW constitution, building a network for Brewery Workers, and engaging with our transformative justice and complaints committee. The evenings at conference were filled with wobbly songs and the social atmosphere was incredible.

As Bristol branch we thank all of those who attended and those who helped to organise and facilitate this year’s conference. It was an ambitious project to work towards and we have learnt so much in the process. We send our international working class solidarity to all the IWW, to our friends and comrades who took part in many ways and we look forward to marching forward with you in the struggle, inspired and invigorated by you all.

ONE BIG UNION!